#A Breif History of Philosophy

The first Philosopher was **Thales**. He claimed "All is water." This is a metaphysical claim.

##Metaphysics

* Being qua being. *qua* - insofar as it is.
* Describes the way all things are in their essence.
* Equates composition all to one single thing (i.e. water).

##Ethics

* **Socrates** - shifted conversation to Ethics.
* Went to Agora, and asked the important people to justify the way they carried out their jobs.
* Found that they couldn't really justify their decisions.
* Socrates wanted to encourage the use of rationalism in making decisions.
* He was put to death because the society wasn't ready for this intellectual shift.
* At the time, Ethics was defined by general peoples' behaviors

##Epistemology

* How do we know things?
* Before being put to death, Socrates had the oportunity to defend himself - "The Apology"
    * "The only reason people seem to think that I'm wise because I don't claim to know anything I don't know" (Rough Quote)
    * Also claimed, "To *know* the good, is to do the good"
* Epistemology focusses on the *know*

###Stoics

* "You matter as much to the universe as a piece of sand does to the beach"
* "Stop worrying so much about yourself, and if it gets too bad, just kill yourself"
* Had metaphysical arguments to support their ethical claims.

###Skepticism

* If you don't know, then don't force (Stop making people stoic if you don't actually know)
* Combats stoism, also a socratic derivation
* This ***is*** epistemology.

##Arguments

* Philisophy of language
* Discussion about validity and strength of claims rather than a discussion of the claims themselves

##Philosophy of Science

* An analysis of the Science of Physics and how it progresses, and how to incorporate progression into the study of Philosophy
* Became a subfeild of Epistomology - How do we know things about science? Why does science work as a way of learning new information?

##Societally Relevant Philosphy of Science

* aka Values in Science
* More discussion with scientists and society as opposed to just internal discussion

##Blog Posts Online

0. Restate the argument you read about
    0. Conclusion - Claim that arg attempts to establish as Truth
    0. Premises - Claims that, if True, provide support for the Conclusion
0. Evaluate the argument
    0. Do you agree with the conclusion?
    0. Justify
