# Documentation

* Every meeting has a `scribe` that records all agreements that have been made.
* There should be a maintained Action Items list (think OKRs spread sheet).

## Issue Tracking

* One method of tracking work is using an issue tracking program, where everyone
is assigned issues as stuff is needed to be done.
* Often code written to resolve an issue can be linked to the issue itself.
* This is closely related to Bug Tracking/Reporting.

## Wikis

* In general, a good opensource way to host documentation and keep it updated.
  * Note for this class: Wiki module has been added to this class's moodle.

## In General

* It's better to overdocument than underdocument.
* Document difficult steps taken to solve problems.
* Record ideas for future development as action items / issues.
* **RECORD BUGS (NO MATTER WHAT!)**
  * Reproducable bug reports with steps to reproduce are great.

# Software Project Life Cycle

* Do _NOT_ simply start writing code!
* Need a collective plan/idea first.

## Phases of a Project

* Requirements
* Architecture
* Design
* Code
* Test
* Release

## Requirements

* What does the system need to do?
  * Functional requirements - What should it do?
  * Non-Functional requirements - How well should it do things?
* What are the features of the system?
* **BE SPECIFIC**
  * If your goals can be qualified by a metric, include one!

### Who are the Customers?

* Designing for outside customers vs. internal customers has different
challenges.
* For large teams, there may be a systems engineer who write and manage
requirements and ensure consistency across multiple products and product lines.

### Documenting Requirements

* Write. It. Down.
* Documents assumptions made throughout the project.
  * Useful if assumptions are questioned later.
* NOTE: Requirements are often baselined with a signed agreement between the
development organization and the customer.
* Changes _MUST_ be negotiated between the above two parties.

## Estimating the Length of a Project

* Great Question - hard to answer.
* Despite that, delivery time is often part of the requirements.
* Think "time is money."

## Software Architecture

### Views

* The architecture of a system often involves different `views`.
* See: "4+1 view model of software architecture"

#### 4 + 1 Views

* Logical View
  * What does it look like to the end-user
  * Components of system and interactions
* Process View
  * Integrator's perspective
  * workflow and communication
* Development View
  * SWE view
  * Software Organization
* Physical View
  * System engineer's view
  * Underlying hardware and exec env
* +Scenarios
  * use cases for running the systems

### Relation of Architecture to Requirements

* Architecture can specify quality atributes in relation to requirements.
* E.g. We have an SLO of 99.99%

### Common Architectural Patterns

* Layered
* Client-Server
* Shared-Data
* Service Oriented
* Tiered
* Model -- View -- Controller

## Design

* Before writing code, have to do some design work.

### What's Important?

* Figure out how to decompose system in to small modules
* Specify interactions between components (API Designs).

### Best Practices

* Write. It. Down.
* Review design and agree with coworkers.
* Keep design up to date.
* **DO NOT CHANGE DESIGN** - _w/o total approval_.

### Different Approaches

* You might try to write all design docs before starting to code.
  * Time consuming but valuable.

## Code

* Coding is _never_ done all at once.
* Project Organization involves breaking the code down into small pieces.
> The architecture of the product is often the architecture of the organization

### Best Practices

* Always have a working system (as early as possible).
  * Useful for making sure the system is not hopelessly broken.
* Try to plan modules s.t. pre-reqs modules are done before their decendants.
  * If not possible, come up with functional mocks / dummy data for testing.

### Coding for More Than 1

* There is usually a common set of tools that everyone uses.
  * Sometimes these tools are determined by platform.
* There is usually a comon set of coding practices: naming conventions, files,
directories, etc.
* **IMPORTANT**: Software tools are needed to manage a shared code base.

#### Source Code Management

* We will use `git` in this class.
* Source Code management systems provide `version control`.

##### Useful Features

* Dev can be distributed across mulitple machines (and therefore devs).
* Devs can branch off and work independently from prod code.
* Manage multiple version of a single file.
* Manage historical record of changes.
* Allow `diff` between versions to see changes over time.
* Automatic merging / clear merge markers.
* Selectively `undo` changes as needed (roll-back / cherrypick).

## Testing

* Factory Testing
  * E.g. Software for testing new hardware.
* Unit Testing
  * Making sure individual logical units work as intended.
* Integration Testing
  * Making sure logical units integrate as intended.
* System Testing
  * Making sure that an entire system works as intended (use-cases).
* Alpha/Beta Testing
  * Tests with real (but `friendly`) users.
* Type Acceptance
  * Some markets have specific testing and certification requirements.
  * E.g. Cell Phones have "drive testing".

### What to Test and When

* Test against quality attributes.
* Test early; Test often.
* **IMPORTANT:** test cost of fixing a problem is at its lowest in the case
where time between introducing a problem and finding a problem is minimized.
  * In other words, find/fix problems quickly.

### Common Test Practices

* Automated Unit Test Tools (gtest, junit, xunit frameworks).
* Continuous Integration
  * Automatically build everything together whenever a change happens / daily.
  * Ensures builds never `just break`.
* Written test plans and automated test cases.
* Some orgs have separate teams working on integration & system tests.

## Product Release

* Details depend on clients, company, and marketplace.
* Some products are released within the context of a framework.
  * These frameworks often have release procedures.
* Some products are released within the context of a store.
  * Think `Play Store` or `App Store`
* Plan Ahead For
  * Upgrading to new versions.
  * Tracking versions.
  * Rolling-back versions.
* Support product once it has been released.
  * `Trace Mode`
  * Bug reporting features
  * Debug logs, stack dumps, etc.

## Management Models

  * Waterfall Model
  * Modifications
  * Agile

### Waterfall

  * Procede through each phase one at a time.

#### Attributes of Waterfall

  * Always sure that things are done by the time they're needed.
  * No latent changes in the design phases to alter existing implementations.
  * Unfortunately, involves lots of waiting / wasted time.

#### Real-World Modifications of Waterfall

  * Pure waterfall has been `deprecated`
  * Add feedback loops between phases
  * Overlap steps a bit

### Agile

  TODO
